the United States has been avoiding
using the word ceasefire during un votes
on the war between Israel and Hamas but
they're using tougher language now the
US has proposed a draft resolution at
the UN Security Council calling for a
temporary ceasefire as soon as feasible
now the United States resolution also
opposes Israel's plans to attack the
overcrowded city of Rafa it says the
assault would harm civilians and push
them into neighboring countries it's not
clear when or or if the text will be put
to a vote but either way it still
intends to veto another measure calling
for an immediate pause to the
fighting well let's get more from our
correspondent Jenny Hill who is in
Jerusalem for us Jenny what more do we
know about this us
resolution well we know that it warns
against as you say that planned ground
offensive in the southern city of Rafa
saying that such a move on the part of
Israel could threaten the peace and
security of the region um the US is
Israel's closest Ally but we have seen
in recent days and weeks a real shift in
tone and language and it looks as though
the Biden Administration is starting to
run out of patience as Benjamin
Netanyahu the Israeli Prime Minister
continues to defiantly um oppose ignore
international calls for restraint in his
military operation in Gaza launched of
course in uh response to those October
7th attacks now look he's insisted that
he has to go into Rafa where he says
there are still battalions of Hamas
Fighters just yesterday the Israeli
government said that if Hamas doesn't
return all Israeli hostages within the
next 3 weeks it will go ahead with that
offensive and that seems to have really
prompted a bit of a flurry of
international efforts to try to get
Israel to rethink its strategy try to
calm this situation down just yesterday
um all but one of the eu's member states
issued a formal statement um calling for
an immediate humanitarian pors in
fighting and we learned this morning
that reportedly the US's Top Middle East
advisor is due to travel to the region
to hold talks in both Egypt and Israel
in the meantime of course there are more
than a million displaced Palestinian
civilians in G in Rafa City living in
tented accommodation in conditions which
are described as really very unpleasant
indeed and all they can do is watch and
wait to see what kind of deal the
International Community might be able to
thres out with Israel and Jenny that's
pressure from a staunch Ally Mr Nan
who's also facing pressure at home isn't
he when it comes to the economy and and
calls for an early
election yeah I mean Mr Netanyahu has
got by if you like um for a very long
time um on a reputation as the defender
of Israel's security Mr security that
reputation has crumbled um he is in a
coalition government he's held up in
effect by some Coalition Partners who
are very Hardline very right-wing they
don't want to see any kind of peace deal
really in fact if anything they'd like
to see all Palestinians moved out of of
this country um so he himself is in a
pretty precarious position politically
and that is why I think it's one of the
reasons certainly that we see him taking
such a defiant stance you know just
yesterday here in Jerusalem there were
protests women protesting about the
Israeli government's approach to trying
to get its hostages home so yeah he he
faces an uneasy situation here but it's
the international pressure now which I
think will claim his attention all right
Jenny thank you so much for that well
speaking of international pressure
meanwhile at the international court of
justice it's on its second day of public
hearings to decide the legality of
Israel's occupation of Palestinian
territories now South Africa and Saudi
Arabia are among the countries to
address it yesterday the un's top Court
heard from the Palestinian delegation
Israel has declined to take part so
let's speak to our correspondent Anna
hollan who is at the ha for us Anna
thank you for your time what did we hear
from the Palestinian foreign
minister uh well there were some
emotional testimonies yesterday we heard
from uh the Palestinian authorities
representative to the UN his voice was
breaking as he asked the judges here
what does international justice mean to
the children of Gaza today it hasn't
Protected Their Lives or limbs their
hopes or homes we also heard from the uh
International lawyer Philip Sans who
said the Great Hall inside the peace
Palace home to the international court
of justice was not Starry Eyed about the
potential for international Justice and
yet he said this is all we have and he
told me after the hearing that he
believed Leeves an advisory opinion from
this court the un's highest court could
help to set the parameters for a
negotiated settlement in the future and
Anna given that Israel has rejected the
Court's Jurisdiction on the matter what
can the Palestinians truly hope for
here you're absolutely right um Israel
has rejected this Court's Jurisdiction
over its occupation of the West Bank and
yet it has submitted a five-page
document in which it says it believes
this case is harmful to efforts to
achieve a peaceful resolution uh because
the question posed by the UN gen general
assembly is actually Prejudice however
over the next 5 days six days in total a
record 51 countries taking part we'll
start to get some insight into how
different countries positions may be
shifting in line with or in response to
what's happening in aaza in Rafa today
and then it will probably take about 6
months for this court to issue its
advisory opinion these advisory opinions
are not legally binding but they do
carry a huge amount of political weight
so could indeed have some influence over
the future trajectory of this conflict